---
layout: post
permalink: Two
title:  "Art and Other Things"
date:   2026-01-09
---

Today I did a lot of creating. Mainly, it was little paintings, but I wrote a bit too. I started to think how I got into art and there really isn't an answer. I was never taught, I don't think I've ever seen a tutorial. Of course I practice, and improve, but only when I want to. When my passion drives my desire to learn and grow. I think holding on to that passion is the best thing you can do for yourself when it comes to any form of creation. I find that the work I'm proudest of comes from when I am excited for the process. I'll become so enthralled with an idea that it spill out of me like a fountain. When I feel this way I try to let my mind take the reins. Sometimes that means writing nonsense and coming back later, or getting messy and making something awful. These moments are good, and we should let outselves feel them. Make something shitty! I think we lose out on the joys of creativity when we refuse to let an idea be bad!

Sometimes I know something won't work from the start and I do it anyways. I made some thumbnails for paintings last night, and I knew some of them were out as soon as I drew them. Some of them I didn't even have a reason besides not liking it. I took a few of those bad ideas and I went with it. There was one drawing I had planned with a squirrel, and from the beginning I knew it wasn't something I liked. I couldn't figure out the pose, and no matter which way I tweaked it it looked unpleasing. I thought I'd try anyways. And I did! And it sucked!!! It looked bad in all the ways I knew it would! But that was okay. When I was making it I tried out a new technique with my oil pastels. It was really fun, even if I hated how it looked on that squirrel. Messing up that way gave me loads of new ideas! I tried the same thing on some other drawings and even though I broke a few of my pastels I really love how it turned out. If I hadn't tried something bad I wouldn't have made something good later down the line.

I think it's really easy to doubt yourself when it comes to creation. But I think that even if your art feels 'bad' or doesn't make you proud, it's still art. You still made it, and that will always be a gift. Something I try to remind myself is to never confuse connection with content. I create for myself, and I also create to connect with others. When you forget the point of connection and start to think of your art as content you begin to fear failure. It is good to fail! Sometimes failure to me is not liking the end result. Sometimes it is trying nothing new. Sometimes it is just not having a good time while making something. Failure is self-defined. There aren't rules on creativity or art. It's whatever you want it to be. All failure really means is that you have an opportunity to learn something (either about yourself or your art) and try again.

I believe that even writing something like "apples to share" in your grocery list can be meaningful. Art is what we want it to be, so we should try to create in our daily lives. No matter what it looks like. Do it bad! Fail at it! COnvince yourself that anything can be evidence of creativity! Anything can be art! Do it afraid and allow yourself to fall in love with this process! Then, everything will be a masterpiece because your joy will show in your work.

