---
layout: post
permalink: Three
title:  "On Being Loved"
date:   2026-01-10
---

I dont think I'm a positive person. I wouldn't even say I'm an optimist. I see the world for what it is and I can't add frills or embellish. I just have faith in love and goodness. But sometimes that faith wavers. Sometimes you stop believing or you're confronted with something that makes you doubt it all. Doubt is a necessary part of faith. I know this intimately. We need to doubt so we can choose to believe. Faith is fighting for it even when the odds are no longer in your favor. It's doing something difficult with a purpose. I think that no matter what you are believing in, faith can take you anywhere. You just have to let it. 

Above all, we must hope for the better. I truly believe that good can happen. And it does happen! Sometimes the cruelty we are so often surrounded by makes us forget that. This is why I spend so much time seeing these bits of light in my life. I believe in the human soul, and I believe in the persistence of love above everything. When we can appreciate the world with our full hearts even in our darkest moments it tends to that fragile bit of hope. It makes theings a little less blek for everyone. You should try to love with all of you. I think it's very important, especially now. You must put love in every breath you take. In every word you say. You need to do whatever you can to love the world and the people in it. I like to think of us as blood cells within the veins of the Earth. You are the thrum of life. You are the driving force for the pulse of life. You have to hold onto this and take full advantage of it. 

I have trouble sometimes, accepting love. It radiates off me and embeds in everything but for some reason taking it from others is a lot harder. I couldn't tell you exactly why this is. I don't think I'll ever know for sure. But I've realized that doing your best to accept kindness is what we owe the people who we love. I think we can all afford to be a little less unsure of ourselves. A little less resistant to the idea that we are good, and that we are appreciated by the people around us. What good is that doing us? There is no benefit to hating yourself and no joy in selling yourself short. There's this misconception that we need to hurt to make good art, and that we need to make good art to make our hurt mean something. Neither of these things are true but it can be difficult to internalize. There is that impulse to make perfect things, to be a perfect person, and to be humble at the end of it. It's bullshit! 

There's a sort of fear that I see a lot, where people are afraid to ever be 'bad'. Where they think in circles: I cannot be selfish because that is a negative trait which means I am a fundementally bad person which means I'm selfish- and so on and so on. It eats itself like a snake. And don't get me wrong, I feel this way too. But recently I try to see everything as a big lake rather than small seperate puddles. There isn't a no good bad trait puddle and a perfect okay feelings puddle. It's all one body, and it's all dictated by how you choose to wade in the waters. I can be selfish and prideful and envious and none of these things make me a bad person. They just make me human. Everyone feels this way sometimes, and anyone who says otherwise is lying! You need to feel these things so you can work on your reaction to them. It's just like faith. I am trying to let myself feel like a good person. I take what people tell me and I think about it until it fits into my waters.

It's something we can all do. Accept love, accept the bad, hope for the good. Everything takes a little work! I'm learning to enjoy this process too.  I'm celebrating achievement, no matter how small. I've been indulging and making excuses to treat myself kindly. We should all start with the simple things. Allow ourselves to be loved and not argue. To say "thank you". To smile at one another. To find no shame in wishing for the best. To enjoy things, and to have fun whenever we can. I think this is enough. Trying is always enough.